Head cocked to the left.
Partial deafness in ear.
First point of attack.
Two. Throat. to paralyze vocal cords.
to stop screaming.
Three. Could be a heavy drinker.
Floating rib to the liver.
Four. Finally. drag the
left leg. Fist to patella.
Summary/prognosis... conscious in 90 seconds.
Martial efficacy. Quarter of an hour at best.
full faculty recovery...
Unlikely!
- I liked the hat.
- Oh. I just picked it up.
You remember your revolver?
Oh. I knew I had forgotten something.
- I thought I'd left the stove on.
- You did.
I think that's quiet enough.
You're a doctor. after all.
Always nice to see you.
Watson.
Where's the inspector?
He's getting his troops lined up.
That could be all day.
Sherlock Holmes.
And his loyal dog.
Tell me. doctor
As a medical man.
have you enjoyed my work?
Let me show how much
I've enjoyed it.
Watson! Don't!
Observe.
How did you see that?
Because I was looking for it.
Lord Blackwood!
You seem surprised.
I say the girl deserves
your attention more than he.
Indeed.
Oh. I'd leave that alone if
if I were you. boy.
Good lad.
Impeccable timing.
Lestrade.
We've one for the doctor.
and one for the rope.
- Clarky?
- Sir?.
This woman needs
a hospital immediately.
- Put it in the back of the mariah.
- c'mon lads.
Careful! Pick it up lads.
If you don't mind.
Get him out of my sight.
Then you were supposed to
wait for my orders.
If I had.
you would be clearing up the corpse!
chasing a ruler.
Besides. the girl's parents
hired me. not The Yard.
Why they thought you'd require any
assistance is beyond me?!
Well... London will breathe a sigh of relief.
- Indeed.
- Congratulations. Lestrade.
- Bravo. Inspector.
Have a cigar.
Gentlemen...
Cheeze!
156 over 80.
Very good.
My valves are the best they've been
in years. thanks to you.
Oh. Tell me something..
Your new premises...
when are you moving in?
I shall be
within a week.
Cavendish Place.
And there will be a woman's touch.
too.
Oh. that's marvelous indeed.
Good... God!
- That was gunfire!
- No... no.no.
Hammer on nail.
wasn't?
My colleague's. probably just...
pre-op painting.
I'll go check.
- Your colleague?
- Yes
Won't be moving with you.will he?
No. he won't.
Mrs. Hudson...
I won't go in there by myself.
No one has got a gun in this house.
You won't have to in there at all.
Give me the paper.
What will I do when
you leave. Doctor?
He'll have the whole house down.
He just needs another case
that's all.
Oh. couldn't you have a longer engagement?
I smell gunpowder. It's not right you know!
Not in a domestic environment.
Thank you. Captain Phillip.
Perhaps a nice
cup of tea...
Same time next week.
Come on. Captain.
It's quieter downstairs.
Mrs. Hudson?
Bring something to cheer him up.
Permission to enter
the armory.
Granted.
Watson. I'm in the process of inventing
a device
that supresses the sound of a gunshot.
It's not working.
Oh. can I see that?
You know it's been three months
since your last case?
Gently. Gently. Watson.
Be gentle with me.
Taking it's time
you found another one.
I can't but agree.
My mind rebels this technician.
give me problems.give me work.
The sooner the better.
- Paper.
- Thank you.
Let's see then.
There's a letter here...
from.. Mrs. Ramsey... of... Queenspark.
Her husband's dissapeared.
He's in Belgium. with the scurry maid.
Is it November?
Yes. Holmes.
What?
Lady Rathford reports...
Oh. her emerald bracelet
has disappeared.
Insurance swindle...
Lord Rathford likes fast women
and slow ponies.
Oh. I see you're the attending physician at
Blackwood's hanging.
Yes
It was our last case together
and I wanted to see it through the end.
A Mr. Louis...
.. is seeking... There's one case
that intrigues me at present
The Curious Case of Mrs. Hudson...
The absentee landlady...
I've been studying her
comings and goings.
They appear most.. sinister.
- Tea. Mr. Holmes?
Is it poisoned. "nanny"?
There's enough of that in you.already.
Don't touch.
Everything is in it's proper place.
As per usual. "nanny".
Oh.he's killed the dog...
again.
What have you done to Gladston.
now?
I was simply testing the
new anaesthetic.
He doesn't mind.
Holmes...
as your doctor...
You be rightous to tribute at no time.
As your friend...
You've been in this room for two weeks.
I insist. you have to get out.
There's nothing of interest.
for me. out there on Earth.at all.
- So. you're free this evening?
- Absolutely.
- Dinner?
- Wonderful.
- The Royale?
- My favorite.
Mary's coming.
- It's not fair.
- You're meeting her. Holmes!
Have you proposed yet?
No. I haven't found the right ring.
Oh.then it's not official.
It's happening. whether you like it or not.
8:30 the Royale.
- Wear a jacket.
- You wear a jacket.
Holmes!
You're early.
Fashionably!
Miss Mary Morstan.
Ah. my goodness. What a pleasure.
For the life of me. I don't know why it's
taken him so long to introduce us properly.
Pleasure is mine.
It really is quite a thrill to
meet you. Mr. Holmes.
I've heard so much about you.
I have a pile of detective novels
at home... Wilkie Collins. Poe...
It's true.
It can seem a little far-fetched though.
sometimes...
making these grand assumptions
out of such tiny details.
That's not quite right.
isn't it?
In fact. the little details
are by far the most important.
- Take Watson...
- I intend to.
You see this walking-stick. a
rare African snakewood.
hiding a blade.. five tenths of steel..
A few were rewarded to veterans
of the Afghan war.
so I can assure you he's
a decorated soldier.
Strong. brave.
born to be an adventurer.
and neat.
like all military men.
Now. I check his pockets.
A stub from a boxing match.
Now. I can infer he's a bit of a gambler.
I'd keep an eye on the dowry
if I were you.
- Those days are behind me.
- Right behind you.
It's cost us the rent.
more than once.
Well. with all due respect. Mr. Holmes.
You know John very well.
What about a complete stranger?
What can you tell about me?
- You?
- I don't think that's...
- I don't know if that's...
- Not at dinner.
- Perhaps some other time.
- I insist.
- You insist?
- You remember when you first...
The lady insists
- You are a governess.
- Well done.
Yes. well done.
Shall we... Waiter!
Your student...
It's a boy of eight.
Charlie is seven. actually.
And he's tall for his age.
He flicked ink at you today.
- Oh. Is there ink on my face?
- There's nothing wrong with your face.
There're two drops on you ear. in fact.
India Blue is nearly
impossible to wash off..
Anyway. a very impetuous
act by the boy
but you're too experienced
to react rashly
which is why the lady for whom you work.
lent you that necklace.
Oriental pearls. diamonds.
flawless ruby. hardly...
.. the gems of a governess.
However. the jewels are not why it tells us more..
- Holmes!
- You were engaged.
The ring is gone. but the lighter skin
which upon it sats. suggests
you spent some time abroad
while you proudly
that is until you were informed of
it's true net and what it's worth
at which point you broke of the engagement
and you returned England
for better prospects.
A doctor. perhaps?
You're right on all counts
Mr. Holmes. but for one.
I didn't leave him.
He died.
Well done. old boy.
Stand up and fight!
Come on!
Come on. you...
Get up..
That's your dream man. I'm done.
You won. Congratulations.
Oye. we ain't done yet.
This mustn't register on
an emotional level.
First. distract target.
Then block his blind jab.
Counter with cross to left cheek.
Discombobulate.
Dazed. will attempt wild haymaker.
Employ elbow block.
And body shot.
block farrow left.
Weaken right jaw.
Now fracture.
Break cracked ribs.
Traumatize solar plexus.
Dislocate jaw entirely.
Heel kick to diaphragm.
In summary: ears ringing.
jaw fractured. 3 ribs cracked. 4 broken.
diaphragm hemorrhaging.
Physical recovery -6 weeks.
Full Psychological recovery -6 months.
Capacity to spit at back of head...
Neutralized.
Where did that come from?
What the hell's going on here. Charley?
Lord Blackwood put him under some
kind of spell. sir.
Like he's burning
from the inside out!
Shut up!
Charley. Charley!
Take this man to the infirmary!
Now!
What's this all about then. Blackwood?
There's someone I want to see.
- Watson?
- Right.
Let's go.
What started really as an
experiment
has brought me to the threshold
of a monumental discovery.
Now. If I play a chromatic scale.
there's no measurable response.
You do know what you're drinking is
meant for eye surgery.
But... now.
and this is remarkable...
if I change to a Tone Cluster
Voila!
They fly in counter-clockwise.
synchronized concentric circles.
as though a regimented flock.
Watson.this is exemplary.
I. using music theory.
have created order. out of chaos.
How do you lure them in?
Excellent question.
Individually
I've been at it for six hours.
And what happens if I do this?
Clean youself up.
You are Blackwood's last request.
Look at those towering structures.
It's the first combination of Berceuse
suspension bridge ever attempted.
Most innovative.
What an industrious empire!
Oh. I have your winnings from last night.
You weren't there. so I made you
a customary bet.
You're right.
I'll keep it with your checkbook.
locked in the safe in my drawer.
Did you know the opera house
is featuring "Don Giovanni"?
I could easily procure a couple of tickets
If you had any
cultural inclinations this evening.
You have a grand gift of silence.
Watson. that makes you quite
invaluable as a companion.
I knew she'd been engaged.
She'd told me.
So. that's 'No' to the opera. then.
That was my waistcoat.
I thought we agreed
it's too small for you.
- I'd like it back.
- I thought we agreed.
I want it back.
This way. Mr. Holmes.
Blackwood certaintly seems to have got the
crowd in something of a fear frenzy.
I'm sure they'll dispersed once
the feet have stopped twitching.
Care to come along?
No. you are on your own. old cock.
I have no business with him
whilst he's alive.
Suit yourself. 'mother hen'.
It seems you have a lot of rooms in there.
We had to move the prisoners. sir.
Otherwise we're going to
have a riot in our hands.
It has a... peculiar effect on the inmates.
As though... he can get inside their heads.
I'm sure I can find my own way
if you have other duties to perform.
Much obliged. sir.
Thank you. sir.
And I stood upon the sand of the sea.
and saw a beast rise up out of the sea.
having seven heads and ten horns.
and upon his horns ten crowns.
and upon his heads the name of blasphemy.
And they worshipped the dragon
which gave power unto the beast:
and they worshipped the beast. saying.
Who is like unto the beast?
And the beast which I saw was
like unto a leopard.
and his feet were as the feet of a bear.
and his mouth as the mouth of a lion:
and the dragon gave him his power.
and his seat. and great authority.
I love what you've done with the place.
So glad you can accept my invitation.
I just have a small point ofconcern.
How can I help?
I rarely follow the motives.
with some interest in..
one my heart and primarily.
to the families of the victims
I couldn't quite notice
your criminal mastery.
in a stroke of a brush.
You're too kind.
However. by comparison.
your work in the crypt
was more I can do with finger painting.
So now you're curious
as to whether there's a larger game afoot?
Either that or...
Shortly. my friend will pronounce
you dead
not while I'm to keep him company.
Your mistake is to imagine...
that anything earthly has led
to this moment.
Your error of judgement is to assume
that I'm holding the brush. at all!
I'm merely the channel.
My only wish is that if I could
have caught you sooner.
You see? Five lives
might have been spared.
Those lives were a necessity.
Sacrifice.
Five otherwise meaningless creatures.
called to serve a greater purpose.
I wonder if they'll let Watson and me
dissect your brain.
After you're hanged. of course.
I wager that some deformity that will
be scientifically significant.
Then you too. could serve
a greater purpose.
Holmes. you must widen your gaze.
I'm concerned you underestimate the gravity
of coming events.
You and I are bound together on a journey
that will twist the very fabric of nature.
But beneath your mask of logic I
sense a fragility...
that worries me.
Steel your mind. Holmes.
I need you.
I say. you've come a long way down
from the House of Lords.
Then. I will rise again.
"Bon voyage".
Pay attention!
Three more will die and there is nothing
you can do to save them.
You must accept that this
is beyond your control.
By the time you realize you made
all of this possible
it will be the last sane thought
in your head.
What did he want?
I'm not sure.
But I don't think you'll need it. Father.
Not for this one.
Lord Henry Blackwood.
you are sentenced to death...
for the practice of black magic.
the unholy murder of five
innocent young woman.
and the attempted murder of a sixth.
Do you have any final words?
Death... is only the beginning.
That is the end of
Lord Blackwood.
London's so bleak this time of the year.
Not that I'm pining for
New Jersey.
I much prefer to travel in the winter.
Here. I brought you these.
All the way from Syria.
I found these exquisite dates from Jordan.
and your favorite...
Olives from the Cyclades.
I thought we might have a little tea party.
and while I was setting the table.
I found this.
A file with my name on it.
Theft of Velasquez portrait
from King of Spain...
a missing navel documents led to
resignation of Bulgarian prime minister.
scandalous affair ends engagement of...
Sorry.
perhaps a prince to
Romanov Princess.
Or simply studying your methods.
Should the authorities ask
me to hunt you down.
But I don't see my name in any
these articles.
But you signature was clear.
Is this the maharajah's missing diamond?
Or just another souvenir?
Let's not dwell on the past.
Shall we?
Now. by the looks of things.
I would say that you are between jobs.
And you between husbands.
How much did you get for the ring?
Oh. he was boring and jealous.
and he snored.
I'm Irene Adler. again.
Thank you.
I need your help.
I need you to find someone.
Why are you always so suspicious.
Should I answer chronologically
or alphabetically?
Careful not to cut yourself
on this lethal envelope.
I think you'll find all the information
you need inside.
Who are you working for?
So. I'll have to find out the hard way.
Keep your money.
I didn't say I'll take the case.
Well. consider it a wager that
you will.
You remember the Grand?
They gave me our old room.
Hold the door.
Thanks. doctor.
Calm!
- He'll do it.
- Well done. Miss Adler.
That's precisely why
I hired you.
I wager he'll have our man within
the next 24 hours.
He'd better.
Reordan is the key to what
Blackwood was doing.
He's essential to my plan.
What are you doing?
Can you not see where you're going?
Get off front of me!
A little rifle raid should go a long way.sir.
Rather than kellish's all fish German.
God save the queen!
God save the queen. sir.
Get off front of me.
Look at you?
Why is it the only woman
you ever cared about
a world class criminal?
Are you a masochist?
Allow me to explain...
Allow me!
She's the only adversary. to
have ever outsmarted you. Twice.
Made a proper idiot out of you.
Right. you've had your fun.
- What's she after. anyway?
- It's time to press on.
What could she possibly need?
Doesn't matter.
You know why? A beard...
a human canoe.
She can sit on your back and
paddle you up.. The Thames.
That's of no consequence to you.
please. dear Watson
We've done our last case together...
I've already read it.
Missing Person.
Luke Reordan.
Four foot ten. red hair. no front teeth.
Case solved.
You obviously not had time.
She likes ginger dwarfs.
Midgets...
- So. you agree.
- No. I don't agree.
It's more than technicality. you see.
You're misrepresenting the dimensions of
foreshorten peoples.
I said too much.
I can tell I've upset you.
No. I'm simply stating that one has to...
What were you doing?
- Won't you allow me to explain?
- I wish you would.
- Holmes? What are you doing?
- Nothing.
- Are you wearing a...
false nose? No.
Tell me. that that wasn't...
Holmes! Where you going?
Watson?
Help! Watson!
I got some flowers for you. sweetheart.
Cut you a deal.
because you're so pretty.
Oh. my lucky day!
And I goosed you're going
to say that for me.
Don't move!
Now.what have we got here?
Thank you.
That's the Irene I knew.
This man intrigues me. Watson.
he's got her on edge.
And she's no mean feat.
She's until did it.
She's scared of him.
if you work for him.
Right.
It's nothing to do with me but I advise you...
Leave the case alone.
But I may not have a choice..
After all. I may be paying the rent
on my own soon. Thanks to you.
Get that out of my face.
It's not in your face. it's in my hand.
Get what's in your hand out of my face.
- Mr. Holmes!
- Clarky!
Sorry. Inspector Lestrade says
you should come with me at once.
What's he do now?
Lost his way to Scotland Yard?
Watson grab a compass.
He means us.
No. you means you.
It's Lord Blackwood. sir. He a...
Well... it appears he's come
back from the grave.sir.
Most engaging.
Very clever.
I pronounced the man dead myself.
What are the facts?
Groundskeeper claims he saw him walking
through the graveyard. just this morning. sir.
I leave this in your capable hands.
I've an appointment with Mary.
It's not my reputation is at stake here.
Don't try that.
Have the newspapers covered it yet?
No. that's what we are trying to avoid. sir.
Certainly.
- What's the major concern?
- Panic. Sheer bloody panic. sir.
Indeed.
You're not taking this seriously.
are you. Holmes?
Yes. as you should.
It's a matter of professional integrity.
No girl. wants to marry a doctor..
who can't tell if a man is dead or not.
Who do you think won the match.
Clarky?
- Sir?
- The rugby match.
Your boys have done a magnificent job
obliterating any potential evidence.
Yes. but at least they never
missed an opportunity...
doing is an opportunity..
You took the time. Holmes.
And on the third day...
These slabs of sandstone are half a tonne
each were each if they are pound...
and these were smashed
open from the inside.
Lestrade. What of the coffin?
We are in the process of
bringing it up now.
Listen...
Heed.
Right.
But at what stage of the process?
Contemplative?
And how is our witness?
He's over there.
And apparently he's cata...
Catatonic. sir.
He's not feeling very well.
- Yes
Until you don't stop behaving like a bunch of
quivering milkmaids.you're on double time.
Now. you get down there and bring
that coffin up. Now.
Sorry. sir!
Good day. sir.
Look.
It's alright..
I'm a doctor.
The man's in shock.
He may need a few moments.
The witness stated that he saw Lord
Blackwood rise from the grave.
Well?
You pronounced him dead.
He had no pulse.
Good lord!
That's not Blackwood.
Well. now we have a firm
grasp of the obvious.
Time of death?
Maggots here is...
approximately...
two thirds of an inch...
which would put the time of death
at between ten and twelve hours ago.
May I borrow your pen?
That guys a dwarf.
Midget.
I know what I saw!
It was Blackwood.
As clear as I see you.
And when the dead walk...
the living will fill these coffins!
Well...
Right. Put the lid on and clean this up?
Do you really believe he was resurrected?
The question is not 'if' but 'how'.
The game's afoot:
Follow your spirit. and upon this charge
Cry 'God for Harry. England.
and St. George. '
There you are.
Why that certain fish and chips stall.
I don't understand.
No. there's a particular beer they use
in their batter... a northern stout
You know. Holmes
I see things in war
I don't understand.
In India. I once met a man
who predicted his own death
right down to the number and the
placement of the bullet that killed him.
You have to admit. Holmes
that a supernatural explanation
to this case. it is theoretically possible.
- No.
- Agreed.
But it is a huge mistake to
theorize before one has data.
Inevitably. one begins to twist facts
to shoot theories...
Instead of theories
to shoot facts.
That said. I believe
Adler's mission is the key to this.
Right. Scratches near the keyhole
where the watch is wound.
What does that tell you?
The man was most likely
a drunk.
Every time he wound the watch his hand
would slip and scratches appeared
- Yes
- Very good. Watson.
You have developed considerably
deductive powers of your own.
Let's see now. There are several
sets of initials scores...
Pawn broker's marks.
- Excellent.
Most recent which are
M.H. M.H. M.H. is for...
Maddison and Haig.
I should be able to get us an address.
What a coincidence.
One thing you failed to deduce
from the watch. Holmes.
I think not.
The time.
I have to get back. Holmes.
Taking tea with the in-laws.
Beckon your future. sir?
Absolutely not.
No. thank you. ma'am.
You need to hear what I
have to tell you.
We have no need of your
lucky heather. gypsy woman.
Even if it has to do with Mary.
Oh. I see two men.
Brothers. Not in blood. but in bond.
What of Mary?
And for Mary. from marriage.
Oh. you will be married.
Go on.
Oh. I see patterned table cloths and
oh. china figurines and
oh. lace doilies
doilies?
Lace doilies. Holmes.
Does your depravity know no bounds?
No.
Oh. she turns too fat and
oh. she has a beard..
What of the warts?
Oh. she's covered with warts.
Enough.
Are they extensive?
Please. enough!
It's the most apt prediction
before us made Indians.
And precisely. the reason you
can't find a suitable ring.
Do you have my money?
You are terrified of a life
without the thrill of the macabre..
Do you have my...
Admit it. admit it!
Give me. my money!
Holmes.
"Large Selection of Engagement
Rings for Every Wallet"
I see.
Thank you.
Well. You've got your ring and I've got
my address for the ginger midget.
Should be just there.
I think she'll really like this.
And I have some change in my pocket.
- Should I look after it for you?
- No. no.
- Don't give it away. here.
No.
I have to go see Mary.
Give her my best.
And the family as well.
It does make a considerable difference
to me having someone with me..
on whom I could thoroughly rely on.
Well. you can rely on me
for exactly ten minutes.
He clearly felt something
was coming to get him.
Something did.
Irene Adler was here.
Either that or the ginger midget wore
the same Parisian perfume.
Aah... Putrifaction.
Ammonium sulphate.
among other aromas.
Phosphorus.
Formaldehyde.
It looks like he was attempting
to combine
some kind of sorcery
and scientific formula.
More importantly...
mess here he was trying to dispose of.
Potassium and magnesium.
Sulfuric acid.
It certainly ironed right out the ink
as long as it's not too burnt.
Peculiar.
Hydrated rododendron.
Holmes.
Look at the crest.
Reordan was working with Blackwood.
'Course he was.
Questions to what end.
Everything he was working on.
he clearly suceeded.
How so?
Otherwise. he'll still be alive.
Which is why Miss Adler is
so desperate to find him.
Yes
There's one odour I can't
quite put my finger on.
It's candyfloss.
Molasses.
Lip syrup.
Barley sugar.
Toffee Apple.
Let me guess.
Judging by your arsonist tool kit
You're here to burn down the building
and extinguish all evidence therein.
Just one minute. boys.
O. Dredger?
Is there a problem?
Meat...
or potatoes?
My ten minutes are up.
One moment. please.
I'm in no hurry.
You alright?
One moment. please.
Holmes.
What is this?
I don't know.
Come along my brother.
Who sent you?
You know very well.
Strange that you should still be
doing a dead man's dirty work
He's back from the dead.
Resurrected or not.
Tell me where to find him.
There are far greater things to fear.
than you and your little toy.
Run little rabbit. run.
With pleasure.
Holmes!
Watson...
What have you done?
I haven't slept all night
Not a wink.
Why I ever believed...
.. that I would get to have tea
with Mary's parents..
...is beyond me. Having been
talked into going with you.
We were set upon
man it was self-defense.
I've been reviewing my notes on our
exploits over the last in seven months.
Would you like to know my conclusion?
I'm psychologically disturbed.
How so?
Why else would I continually be
led into situations...
where you deliberately withhold your plans from me.
Why else?
You never complained about
my methods before.
I'm not complaining.
You're not?
What do you call this?
How me complain? I never complain.
When do I complain about...
you pratising the violin at
three in the morning.
Or your mess. your
general lack of hygiene.
or the fact that you steal my clothes.
Ah. we have a barter system.
When do I complain about you
setting fire to my rooms?
Our rooms.
The rooms. When do I complain that
you experiment on my dog?
Our dog.
It's our dog.
But I do take issue. is your campaign
to sabotage my relationship with Mary.
I understand.
Do you?
I do.
I don't think you do.
You're over tired.
Yes.
You feel a bit sensitive.
I'm not sensitive.
What you need is to rest.
My brother. Mycroft.
has a small state near Chichester...
beautiful grounds... has a falling
We threw a lamb on the spit..
We? Holmes. if I was to go to the country
it would be with my future wife.
Well. certainly if we must...
No. Not you. Mary and I!
- You are not...
- What? Invited?
Why would I not be invited to my
own brother's country home.
Watson. now you are the
one not making any sense.
- You're not human!
- John Watson?
- Yes
Your bail's been posted.
Mary!
Just Watson.
I hope you get bail by breakfast.
because the boys are getting hungry.
Back off! Back off!
To which the barman says:
"May I push in your stool?".
Right you. you're out.
- Until next time. Big John.
- Always a pleasure. Mr. Holmes.
Thank God you're here. Lestrade
I almost ran out of jokes.
You know in another life.you would
have made an excellent criminal.
Yes. and you. sir.
an excellent policeman.
Topski! Thank you.
Now. please tell me you have answers.
All in good time. Lestrade.
LONDON IN TERROR
All in good time. what is this
some part of the game
where we have to guess
what you're thinking?
I've got a public in frenzy out there...
now. if you don't fill me in.
I'll have you in there..
playing " Victoria and Albert"
quicker than a bookie's run!
And clean up and make youself presentable.
Why?
Friends in high places...
They are the ones who
bailed you out.
I'm terribly sorry to
inconvenience you. sir.
But I'm going to have
to put this on you.
Mr. Holmes. apologies for
summoning you like this.
I'm sure. it's quiet a mystery of
where you are and who I am.
As to where I am...
I was initially lost through a moment.
between Charing Cross and Holborn.
but I was saved by the
bread shop on Saffron Hill.
The only baker to use a certain French
glaze on their loaves. a Britanny sage.
After that. the carriage forked left and right
the Tilt Hill bump to fleet conduit.
And as to who you are that took
every ounce of my not
inconsiderable experience.
The letters on you desk are addressed
to a Sir Thomas Rodrum.
'Your Chief Justice'.that
would be the official touch.
Who are you really are... is
of course another matter entirely.
Judging by the sacred ox on your ring..
your cross is the secret head of the
Temple of the Four Orders
in whose head quarters we now sit.
On the northwest corner of
St. James Square. I think.
That's a mystery. the other mystery is
why you bothered to blindfold me at all.
Yes. well..
Standard procedure. I suppose.
I dare say we have the
right man. gentlemen.
Sherlock Holmes.
Ambassador Standish from America and
Lord Coward. Home Secretary.
I suppose you already have some
notion as to the practices of our order.
Yes
They... are practically interesting.
Be as skeptical as you like.
But our secret systems
have steered the world towards
a greater good for centuries.
The danger is. they can also be
used for more nefarious purposes.
What some call the dark arts
or... practical magic.
We know you don't believe in magic.
Mr. Holmes
we don't expect you to share our faith
merely our fears.
Fear is the more infectious condition.
in his instance.
Fear for your own child.
Blackwood is your son
You have the same irises. a rare dark
green. the diamond shaped hazel flex.
together with identical
outer ears or pinna.
Which are only passed down
through direct bloodline
which makes you by necessity
either brothers or
or in this case. more
likely... father and son.
Very few people have
paraded that information.
And we want to
keep it that way.
He was concieved
during one of our rituals.
His mother wasn't my wife.
But she shared our beliefs.
She was a powerful practitioner.
Though not enough to
survive giving birth to him.
Death followed him
wherever he went.
Those five girls were not
the first to be butchered.
He killed many more using
them to enhance his powers.
No one could prove anything
of course. but we all knew.
The boy was a curse.
We've done our best to stop him
ourselves. but it's not enough.
His power grows daily.
His resurrection is evidence of that.
But what he does next
will be far more dangerous.
The secret lies in the book of spells.
This is the source of his power.
He's going to raise a force that will
alter the very course of the world.
I want you to find him and
stop him before he does.
We'll give you any assistance
that we can.
As home secretary. I have a
considerable influence over the police.
- Oh. yes
- So...
Name your price?
Well. a great benefit to be a
consulting detective....
...is that. I can pick and
choose my clients.
So. consider it done. I'll stop him.
But not for you... and
certainly not for a price!
I do have a parting
query. SirThomas.
What is that?
If the rest of his
family is dead...
how long do you expect to survive?
Food for thought!
Well. perhaps you'll have
better luck opening that.
Margot '58.
comet vintage.
How fascinating. that an astronomical
event can effect the quality of...
How is it going with our
case that you refused to take?
...wine.
Or I've hit a dead end. Literally.
I found your man. He's
buried in Blackwood's tomb.
If you still need him.
Oh dear...
Hope my client doesn’t
come looking for a refund.
He's a professor. isn't he?
I couldn't see his face. but I spotted
a bit of chalk on his tappan.
I've never known a professor to carry a
gun. and on such a clever contraption.
Eyepatch. Nice touch...
So... case closed.
Which makes this a social visit.
No. It's 'you're in over
your head Irene' visit.
Who ever killed Reordan was
covering their tracks...
which makes the next
loose end to be snipped.
Let it breathe.
I've never been in over my head.
Leave now. dissapear.
You're good at that.
Or stay. and volunteer
for protective custody.
If I'm in danger.
so are you.
Come with me.
What if we trusted each other.
You're not listening. I'm taking
you. to either a railway station
or the police station.
So...
What is it to be?
You decide. which will it be?
I told you to let it breathe.
Can you taste the comet?
Why couldn't you
just come away with me?
Madam. I need you to remain calm.
and trust me. I'm a professional.
but beneath this pillow.
lies the key to my release.
Of course. she misinterpreted
my intention entirely.
Naturally sir.
Thats why I find this modern
religious fellow so troubling.
There's no latitude
for misunderstandings.
It runs right over reason. sometimes.
And chambermaids were
once such a liberal breed.
My wife's a chambermaid. sir.
Anyhow. it’s a good thing she was a friend.
otherwise we may never have found you.
The inspector's been over to Baker
Street himself this morning. sir.
Just joking about the wife. sir.
We've checked everything. sir.
There's no sign of a break in
and the butler didn't hear a thing.
So body in the bath tub.
his eyes were wide open
and the only thing missing was...
His ring. sir.
Why did you drain the water?
Out of common decency.
Crime is common.
Logic is rare.
The decent thing to do is to catch the killer.
not to provide conflict of cause.
What is that?
Jasmine bath salt. sir.
Superb. Probably comes
from a larger container.
It would either be in the pantry.
high up where it's warm and dry.
or in a linen cupboard with a vent.
And constable. you could do worse
than to check the ground
under the rear window. for any signs
of footprints. not your own.
Data. data. data. I cannot
make bricks without clay.
Charles?
Was it in the cupboard or the pantry?
It was in the pantry. sir.
I don't know what to make of this.
Excellent work.
Adieu.
What's the meaning of this. Coward?
Why have you called this meeting?
Sir Thomas is dead.
I nominate Lord Blackwood
as head of the Order.
Have you lost your mind?
You know damn well
what his capable of.
Of course he does.
That's why we're here.
That's why we're all here.
My powers and my assets were
given to me for one purpose.
Magnificent was a simple purpose.
To create a new future.
A future ruled... by us.
Tomorrow at noon. we take the first step
towards a new chapter in our history.
Magic will lead the way.
Once the people of England
see our new found power..
they'll bow down in fear.
Across the Atlantic. lies a
colony that was once ours.
It will be again.
The civil war has
made them weak.
Their government is as corrupt
and ineffective as ours.
So we'll take it back.
We will remake the world.
Create the future.
These men are with me.
Standish.
But... are you?
No. sir. I am not.
These powers that you're
playing with...
no man can control.
Well. gentlemen... Someone
has to stop them
even if you won't.
I wouldn't do that if I were you.
Gentlemen... don't be afraid.
As you can see.
we are protected.
Come... drink your allegiance here.
You control the
police. now use them.
I didn't know you were here.
Since this room is no longer yours.
do you mind if I utilize it?
Be my guest.
- In here chaps.
- Where shall we put him. sir?
Anywhere's fine.
Who is he?
He's the man who tried to kill
you at Reordan's lodgings.
I suppose his neck didn't survive the
impact of Dredger landing on him.
Yes... Thanks for that by the way.
But there is still some consolation
in the knowledge
that he can still be of service
to his fellow man.
Elbow is now stained with blood.
But it's older than his own injuries.
None of it human. There's
an odd butcher. Let me see...
Yellow Flame. Green bursts.
An industrial worker.
Coal. Hint of silt.
And the strike on his trousers.
should put him squarely in...
Nine Elms.
Sorry what?
The area you're looking
for is Nine Elms.
Do you remember where I put the
Lord's register of members interests?
It's on the step ladder.
Blackwood's had his hand in just about
everything that's corrosive to the spirit.
Woolidge Arsenal.
Limehouse Chemical Works.
Probably be a factory
by the river.
What's that?
Never mind.
You don't know where
my rugby ball went. do you?
No. not a clue.
Queensithe slaughterhouse.
Nine Elms.
A factory by the river.
Well done. Watson. That should
lead us right to Blackwood.
Dead or Alive.
Not us.
You.
Yes...
Just a figure of speech. old boy.
He's left it there on purpose.
More coal doctor.
That's a good one.
Glad to see you two
are working hard then.
And I thought you were
trying to be discrete.
You would not last
one day in the navy.
Holmes. are you
sure there is no
alternative means of
water transportaion than that.
I guarantee you nobody knows
London's waterways better.
Tanners practically a fish himself.
He certainly drinks like one.
Oh. you've found your
sense of humour. doctor.
If only just a sense.
I better take over.
A bit tricky down here.
Come on.
Look familiar?
Yeah.
All that's missing is the ginger midget.
They cleared something away from here.
Not minutes ago.
Like what?
I'm not sure. Something mechanical.
Holmes. look at this.
1:18
Chapter and verse.
Revelations 1:18.
'I am he that liveth...
...and was dead. '
- ' and. behold. I am alive for evermore.'
I warned you. Holmes. to accept
that this was beyond your control.
Beyond what your rational
mind could comprehend.
What a busy afterlife you're having.
I want you to bear witness.
Tomorrow. at midday. the
world as you know it. will end.
Show me your face and it will
be the end of your world right now.
Save the bullets. Watson.
A gift for you.
What was that about saving bullets?
She followed you here. Holmes.
You led your lamb to slaughter.
Holmes!
This game is designed to hurt.
Watson!
It's warm in here. Watson!
In over your head yet. darling?
Hold on there!
I can't.
Let me take your weight.
Put this leg up. old boy.
These German locks always
give me trouble.
It's a band saw!
No matter. We have plenty of time.
Holmes...
It's not working.
Keep calm.
Holmes! Hurry up.
Don't get exited!
Turn of that valve.
It'll bounce in.. Three...
...two.
...one.
Thank you.
I'm gonna get after. Blackwood.
We should go help the doctor.
Holmes!
Lord Coward has issued a warrant
for your arrest. sir.
Watson's alive.
Just get out of here. sir. Go.
Will the train be departing on time?
The train's been delayed. madam.
Shouldn't be long. now though.
The train will depart
when I tell it too.
And you will leave my
employment. when I allow you to.
I fulfilled my contract.
I found Reordan.
He's in Scotland Yard's mortuary.
So that's me finished.
Your job was to manipulate
Holmes' feelings for you.
Not succumb to them.
You have fulfilled nothing.
I want what Reordan
was making for Blackwood.
Finish the job or the next dead
body. will be Sherlock Holmes.
The surgeon should
be along shortly.
He should be
able to rest now.
Excuse me.
Is that the best you can do?
Yes. for now.
I must attend to
my other patients.
Doctor...
Doctor!
Please!
I know that you care
for him as much as I do.
This is not your responsibility.
It was his choice.
He'd say that it was worth the wounds.
Solve this.
Whatever it takes.
It's Lord Blackwood. sir.
I've never been in over my head.
It's nothing to do with me. but I'd
advise you. leave the case alone.
You're not taking this
seriously are you. Holmes.
I told you to accept. this
was beyond your control.
Tomorrow at mid-day. the world will end.
Holmes.
You and I. are bound together on a journey.
that will twist the very fabric of nature.
Steel your mind. Holmes.
He's going to raise a force that will
alter the very course of the world.
His power grows.
This is the source of his power.
I need you.
The secret lies in the book of spells.
Three more will die...
and there's nothing
you can do to save them.
We know you don't believe in magic.
Reordan was working with Blackwood.
The only thing missing
was his ring.
Give up. Holmes.
This is a riddle you cannot solve.
Good morning.
Now. you need to work.
Familiar artwork?
You look gorgeous.
Some how. I knew you wouldn't leave.
Sherlock Holmes
WANTED
You made the front page.
Only a name. and no picture?
So it looks like. you'll be needing
to work outside the law now.
and that's my area of expertise.
I feel safer already.
You seem to be making a rapid recovery.
Yes...
I took the shrapnel out myself.
Mary said I had a lousy doctor.
Well I'm... I'm just so...
very glad that you're
um... well. with us.
Now that you’re sitting
comfortably. I shall begin.
My initial approach
was far to narrow.
When Blackwood invited
me to Pentonville prison
he suggested I widen my gaze.
and at minimum. I have done just that.
In fact. I may well have reconciled thousands
of years of theological disparity.
But that's for another time.
Blackwood's method is based
on a ritualistic mystical system
that's been employed by the Temple
of the Four Orders for centuries.
To fully understand the
system. to get inside it.
I reinacted the ceremony
we interupted at the crypt.
with a few enhancements of my own.
my journey took me so much further down
the rabbit hole than I intended
and though I don’t need
my fluffy white tail.
I have emerged. enlightened.
The fraternity who
decidedly control the empire
who shared the belief with the kings.
pharaohs and emperors of old.
that the Sphinx was a door
to another dimension.
A gateway to immeasurable power.
It's made up of four parts.
The foot of a lion. the tail of
an ox. the wings of an eagle
and the head of a man.
In Sir Thomas’s secret chamber.
I found a bone of an ox
the tooth of a lion. the feather
of an eagle and a hair of a man.
Map.
The points of the star represent
the the five murdered girls.
but the cross is what
were now intrested in.
It’s a wildly held belief. that within
the architecture of the great cities
are coded references to the system.
Since he rose from the grave.
Blackwood's killed three men.
Each murder was committed at a location
that has a direct connection with the temple.
therefore the system.
Reordan. the ginger midget.
represents man. We found his body here.
Sir Thomas... master of the
temple. wore the ox ring.
He died here.
Standish. the ambassador to America.
Where the eagle has been a national
emblem over a hundred years.
The headquarters of the Temple of the
Four Orders. where he died.
...is here.
Correspondingly. the map will tell
us the location of Blackwood's final act.
So we have man. the ox.
eagle and the lion remaining.
Right here.
Parliament.
Alright. you four stay here and
the rest of you. come with me.
Right this way.
Ladies First.
Follow these instructions.
Hello. hello. hello...
Did the devil turn up?
Well. never mind.
You've got the next best thing.
Beg your pardon my lord.
I know it’s unorthodox...
But Mr. Holmes here. he's been making
some serious accusations about you..
and The Order.
I see.
Well. at least this solves the great mystery
as to how you became inspector.
Excuse me. my lord.
But I've been wanting
to that for a long time.
Well inspector. I have five minutes
before my next engagement.
So why don’t you regale me
with your stories of conspiracy.
Thank you. Lestrade.
My lord...
I'm curious. Coward. Did you assist
Blackwood in all the murders.
or just the one I prevented?
Very distinctive. those hand
made shoes of yours.
But the price of quality is often.
the leaking print they leave.
Nonetheless I confess to being
completely outmatched.
I could deduce very little
from my investigation.
Fortunately. there’s nothing
more stimulating than a
case where everything
goes against you.
How many members of parliament do
you intend to murder. at noon today.
Man. ox. eagle. lion. The
lion's the parliament. isn't it?
Very clever.
But it's not murder.
Mr. Holmes.
It's mercy.
We are giving the weak
masses a strong Shepherd.
Don't you see.
it's for their own...
No. But I don't care
much what you think.
I just simply wanted to know the
location of Blackwood’s final ceremony.
And now you've given it to me.
I've told you nothing.
But your clothes say infinitely more
than you could ever hope.
The mud smeared on your boots
from where you’ve been walking.
A touch of red brick dust on your knee
from where you’ve been kneeling.
A small bandage on your thumb
from where you’ve been vowing.
A faint aroma of excrement from
where you’ve been standing.
You and Blackwood laid the final
touches to your ceremony in the sewers..
beneath parliament.
less than an hour ago.
Both houses meet today.
The whole government will be present.
It's a shame you made an
enemy out of Blackwood. Holmes.
You would have
made a valuable ally.
How terrible is wisdom.
when it brings no profit to the wise.
We take power at noon.
Then isn't anytime to waste then.
Guess not?
I told you he’d be coming out of
that top window. soldier boy.
There isn't any way he’d be
coming out of that terrace.
Technically. that isn’t the
top window. is it? Sailor boy.
What is it?
Well. it's the middle window.
Anyway. you’ll be pleased to know
that Lestrade performed his role perfectly.
In fact. I think
I rather enjoyed it.
I hope you know what
you're doing. Holmes.
Here's the key.
You got what you
needed from. Coward?
Yes. I smoked him out
of the room. with ease.
Taylor?
Sir?
If you would. captain.
take us onto the bridge.
Portside. Approximately 100 yards
beyond that.
you will find a tunnel. that leads
us to the sewers.
Right away. sir.
Blackwood’s come back from hell
and laid a curse upon this land.
Behold. Blackwood's magic revealed.
What does it do?
It's a chemical weapon.
The first of its kind.
You deduced that. how?
From my pocket.
I snipped this off a rather common
rat at the slaughterhouse.
Notice the bluish discolouration.
The faint smell of bitter almonds
and tell-tale traces of cyanide.
Now we know what the
ginger midget was working on.
- It will revolutionise warfare.
- Yes. killing a lot of people.
Now. there's 7 minutes until
noon. What are we gonna do?
Right....
She loves an entrance. your muse.
Shoot him! Now please!
My lords! My lords! Time has come for any of
those who believe. to remain.
Behold... Lord Blackwood.
You seem surprised.
I have returned from beyond the
grave to fulfil England’s destiny.
and extend the boundaries
of this great empire.
Listen to the rabble outside.
Listen...
to the fear.
I will use that as a
weapon to control them...
and then the world.
I've never seen anything like it.
Look at this.
It’s specifically designed to
prevent us from disarming it.
These cannoli appear to be designed
to receive a signal of some sort.
Electromagnetic waves?
When triggered. the electrodes
will send a charge
converting the chemial into gas.
and the gas will travel up that shaft
and filter through the ventilation
system that leads directly to parliament.
Within seconds of it's administration.
the most powerful men in the
world will be choking on death.
Blackwood must have
some sort of transmitter
that connects them remotely.
Three minutes and ten seconds.
I will create an empire that
will endure for a millennia.
Indestructible and eternal.
Move it! Move it!
We don't actually have to disarm the device.
we just have to remove the cylinders.
Yes
Except that they're welded in. What
we need is a controlled expolsion.
We need a container to direct the blast.
my clay pipe should service that ambition.
Did you miss me?
I rather wish you hadn't done that. Irene.
On the twelfth chime. I will
summon the dark powers.
All of those who are with
me shall be protected.
All others will perish.
I need your pipe.
Nut him!
What?
Coat!
Got him.
A new order... begins now.
Woman?
What are you waiting for?
That..
Apprehend Coward!
- Can you manage?
- Of course I can.
Relax. I'm a doctor.
Did you take a wrong turning somewhere?
We're safe now.
Interesting assessment.
Run off.
I won't be chasing you anymore.
Fare thee well.
I don't want to run anymore.
I'll tell you everything.
I wish you would.
No!
There was never any magic.
Only conjuring tricks.
The simplest. involved
paying people off.
Like the prison guard who pretended
to be possessed outside you cell.
Your reputation and the
inmates fear did the rest.
Others required more
elaborate preparations.
It was sandstone slab
that covered your tomb.
You had it broken before your burial
then put back together
using a mild adhesive.
An ancient Egyptian recipe. I believe.
A mixture of egg and honey. that
was to be washed away by the rain.
Holmes!
Arranging for your father to
drown in his own bathtub
required more modern science.
Very clever of Reordan
to find a paralytic..
that was activated by the
combination of copper and water.
and was therefore undetectable
once the bath water was drained.
It would have been
quite a challenge for me.
had he not also tested it on
some unfortunate amphibian.
The death of Standish
was a real mystery
until you used the same
compound. to blow up the wharf.
An odorless. tasteless flammable liquid.
Yet. it burned with an unusual
pinkish hue.
Did Standish mistake it for rain
as he entered the temple.
All it took was a spark.
A simple rigged
bullet in his gun.
Ingenious.
Like all great performers. you saved
your Pièce de résistance for the end.
A chemical weapon.
distilled from cyanide.
and refined in the bellies of swine.
Had it worked. your followers in
parliament would have watched unharmed.
as their colleagues were
dying around them.
They didn't know that you'd
given them the antidote.
Instead they would have
believed it was magic.
and that you'd harnessed
the ultimate power.
And the world would have followed. Fear.
being the most powerfull weapon of all.
You'd better hope that it's
nothing more than superstition.
as you performed all
the rituals perfectly.
The devil's due a soul. I'd say!
For god's sake.
Holmes. cut me loose!
First. the world will see
you for what you are.
A fraud.
Then you'll be hanged
properly this time.
It's a long journey
from here to the rope.
I've never woken up
in handcuffs before.
I have.
Naked.
A storm's coming.
Well... we've still got a moment.
Moriarty...
What?
That's his name.
And he is a professor.
Everyone has a weak spot.
And he found a mine.
What was it precisely?
Please don't underestimate him.
He's just as brilliant as you are.
and infinitely more devious.
We'll see about that.
You'll miss me. Sherlock?
Sadly... yes.
Afternoon. sir. I put the notebooks
in this one. sir. Thank you.
What's in these. John?
Scribbles.
Scribbles?
Notes.
They're your adventures!
I'd like to read them.
Come on. what's wrong?
I think his finally come
to terms of you leaving?
Mary. look at the
ring his given us.
Now five minutes here.
and we'll go home.
Our home.
Count those stairs.
Don't worry. dear.
Suicide is not in his repertoire. He's
far to fond of himself for that.
Holmes!
Good afternoon.
I was trying to deduce the manner in which
Blackwood survived his execution.
Clearing your good name. as it were.
But it had a surprising
suffocating effect on. and
I was carried off in
the arms of Morpheus.
like a caterpillar in a cocoon.
Good afternoon. dear.
Get on with it. Holmes.
Cleverly concealed in the
hangman's knot was a hook.
Oh dear. I think my legs have fallen
asleep I should probably come down.
John. shouldn't we
help him down?
No. no. I hate to
cut him off midstream.
Carry on.
Well the executioner
attached it to a harness.
Thus lowering the weight
contributed around the waist and
the neck to remain intact.
Oh my lord. I can't feel my cheeks.
Might we continue
this at ground level?
How did you manage it. Holmes?
I managed it with braces. belts and
a coat hook.
Please. Watson. my tongue is going. it
would be of no use to you at all.
Worse things could happen.
- John.
None of this. explains
Blackwood's lack of pulse.
Right.
Now the medical mystery.
We must restore your reputation.Watson.
There is a toxin refined from the
nectar of Rhododendron ponticum.
It's quite infamous in the region of Turkey.
bordering the Black Sea. for it's
ability to induce an
apparently mortal paralysis.
Enough to mislead a medical mind.
even as tenacious as your own.
It's known locally as...
What's wrong with Gladston?
Mad honey disease.
His demonstrating the very
effects that I just described.
He doesn't mind.
Mary don't worry.
he's seen far worse.
Mr. Holmes?
Doctor. Miss Mary...
Sorry. Inspector Lestrade asks
you come with me right away.
What is it this time. Clarky?
It’s one of our sergeants. sir.
He went missing in the sewers the
day. you stopped Lord Blackwood.
I’m afraid the sewage workers
found his body just this morning. sir.
We believe the sergeant.
was our first man on the scene...
Can I help you. officer?
Shot in the head.
Was it a small caliber bullet?
Yes.
Was there powdered
burns on his eyebrows?
Indeed. sir.
Point blank range.
Moriarty.
Professor Moriarty.
There's a good boy!
Everything's gonna be fine.
Where is Blackwood's device now?
Secret Service have it. sir.
They've taken over the case.
I bet there's a piece missing.
So Moriarty was after
a piece of the machine.
Not the poison.
There’s nothing more elusive
than an obvious fact.
The wire free invention
was the game all along.
And Adler was just the diversion.
He knew I'd chase after her.
thereby leaving the machine accessible.
The technology of that kind can
be worth an untold fortune.
Imagine being able to control
any device simply..
by sending a command via radio waves.
It's the future. Watson.
I've loaded the last
of your boxes. sir.
Well...
Gladston!
Stop him before he
gets to the front door.
Clarky?
Case reopened.